Male Speaker: Let us pray.
We confess to you, all knowing God, what we are.
We are sometimes not the people we like ourselves
to think that we are.
We have at times failed to be a people whose actions measure
up to our words.
We've been called to love our neighbor, as we love ourselves,
we are humbled by the love demonstrated by these men,
the valor 24 of whom we honor today.
From World War II to Korea and Vietnam, you'll hear stories
woven into a heroic hole, you remind us that although we may
be different in many ways, we are alike in the most important
of ways, we are American soliders.
Today we celebrate a legacy which isnpires our service.
Grant unto us the decncy of purpose, steadfast of resvole,
and strength and will which these men posessed.
Fill us with courage, with humility, and we may follow
their path, that our spiritual God, that we may never
forget that the highest
appreciation
is not to utter words,
but to become a model of what we advocate.
We pray and ask your holy name, amen.
The President: Good
afternoon, everybody.
Please be seated.
Well, welcome to
the White House.
The presentation of our
nation's highest military
decoration -- the Medal
of Honor --
is always a special occasion.
But today, it is
truly historic.
This is the single largest
group of service members
to be awarded the Medal
of Honor
since the Second World War.
And with several of these
soldiers recognized for
their valor during that
war,
this ceremony is 70 years in the making.
As one family member
has said,
this is long overdue.
Many of these families --
and I had a chance to meet
all of them who are
present here today --
they've known these
stories
of heroism for decades.
Still, they were pretty
surprised when we called
them to break the news
about the Medal of Honor.
Some of them thought
it was a prank.
(laughter)
Some of them
thought it was a scam.
A few of them thought it
might be some trick
to get their credit card number.
(laughter)
When I called
Melvin Morris --
who we'll recognize in a moment
for his actions in Vietnam --
his first reaction was,
"Oh, my God,
what have I done?"
(laughter)
When I told him
it was all good --
the Medal of Honor -- I could
hear through the phone,
he almost passed out.
(laughter)
You see, for
their gallantry under fire
each of these soldiers was
long ago
recognized with the Army's
second-highest award --
the Distinguished Service Cross.
But ask their fellow
veterans, ask their
families, and they'll
tell
you that their extraordinary
deeds merited
the highest recognition.
And today, we have the
chance
to set the record straight.
This ceremony reminds us
of one of the enduring
qualities that makes
America great --
that makes us exceptional.
No nation is perfect,
but here in America
we confront our imperfections
and face a sometimes
painful past -- including
the truth that some
of these soldiers fought, and
died, for a country
that did not always
see them as equal.
So with each generation we
keep on striving to live
up to our ideals of
freedom and equality,
and to recognize the dignity
and patriotism of every
person, no matter who they
are, what they look like,
or how they pray.
And that's why, more than
a decade ago, Congress
mandated a review to make
sure that the heroism
of our veterans wasn't
overlooked because
of prejudice or
discrimination.
Our military reviewed
thousands of war records.
They teamed up with
veterans groups and
museums to get this right.
It was painstaking work,
made even harder because
sometimes our service
members felt as if they
needed to change their
last names to fit in.
That tells a story
about our past.
But, ultimately, after
years of review,
these two dozen soldiers --
among them Hispanic,
African American and Jewish
veterans -- were
identified as having
earned the Medal of Honor.
This is the length to
which America will
go to make sure everyone who
serves under our proud
flag receives the thanks
that they deserve.
So this is going to
be a long ceremony.
We're going to read all 24
citations, because every
one is a story of bravery
that deserves to be told.
But first, I want to take
just a few minutes
to describe the Americans
behind these actions,
the men these families know --
the brilliant lives behind
the smiling faces in those
old photographs, and how
they reflected all the
beauty and diversity of
the country that
they served.
They were Americans by
birth and Americans by
choice -- immigrants,
including one who was not
yet even a citizen.
They grew up in big
city neighborhoods
like Brooklyn, rural
communities like Hooper,
Nebraska, small
towns in Puerto Rico.
They loved to fish
and play baseball.
They were sons who made
their parents proud,
and brothers who their
siblings looked up to.
They were so young --
many in their early 20s.
And when their country
went to war,
they answered the call.
They put on the uniform,
and hugged their families
goodbye -- some of them
hugged the wives and
children that they'd
never see again.
They fought in the rocky
hills of Italy,
the blood-stained beaches of
France, in the freezing
mountains of Korea, the
humid jungles of Vietnam.
Their courage almost
defies imagination.
When you read the records
of these individuals,
it's unimaginable, the valor
that they displayed.
Running into bullets.
Charging machine gun nests
and climbing aboard tanks
and taking them out.
Covering their comrades
so they could
make it to safety.
Holding back enemies, wave
after wave, even when the
combat was hand-to-hand.
Manning their posts --
some to their very last
breaths -- so that their
comrades might live.
Of the 24 American
soldiers we honor today,
10 never came home.
One of them -- Corporal
Joe Baldonado, from the
Korean War -- is still
missing,
reminding us that, as a nation,
we have a scared obligation
to keep working to give the
families of our missing
service members from all
wars a full accounting
of their loved ones.
Through their grief, the
families of our fallen
summoned the strength to
carry on: wives whose
hearts ached for their
husbands; sons and
daughters who grew up
without their dad;
nieces and nephews and
grandchildren.
These families
join us here today.
And they know, more than
most, that because others
laid down their lives for
us, we've been able
to live our lives in freedom,
pursue our dreams.
So there's a legacy
here born of sacrifice.
That includes a soldier's
nephew --
a kid from New York, who grew up
to become one of the great
rock stars of all time and
who honors
his uncle here today.
It includes soldiers
who came home and took
different paths -- some
continued to serve in
uniform, some beginning
new careers, some getting
married and raising their
kids, serving their
communities, taking care
of their fellow vets.
These veterans lived out
their lives in the country
that they helped to
defend, and doing what
they loved --like William
Leonard,
who at age 71 passed away in his
backyard,
sitting in his chair, listening
to his beloved Yankees
play on the radio.
And that's where this
story might have ended.
But Mitchel Libman -- a
friend of one of these
soldiers and an Army vet
himself --
set out on a mission.
He and his wife Marilyn
spent years writing
letters and working with
Congress
and our military to get this done.
And so we thank all those
who worked so hard
for so long to bring us to this
moment, especially Marilyn
and Mitchel -- now 83
years old -- who I'd ask
to stand so that we
can all say thank you.
(applause)
Finally, of
these 24 soldiers, three
remain with us and have
joined us here today --
men who remind us that
sometimes the heroes
we seek are right in front of us,
literally living right next door.
Most days, you can find
Jose Rodela in his San
Antonio home -- a
76-year-old retiree who
enjoys watching baseball
on TV, and working on his
1975 Chevy pickup, and
mowing the grass
for his neighbors.
Jose is such a humble
guy that he did not even
mention the ceremony to
his neighbors --
who I think would be pretty
shocked to turn
on the news tonight --
(laughter)
-- and see that the guy
who cuts their lawn is
getting
the Medal of Honor.
(laughter)
Today, we
remember how 32--year-old
Sergeant First Class
Rodela fought through his
wounds in Vietnam and
rallied his men during
18 hours of constant combat.
Most days, you can find
Melvin Morris at home
in Port St. John, Florida --
72 years old,
a retired salesman and a
great-grandfather.
You'll find him working on
his boat, going fishing,
reading the Bible,
spending time
with his beautiful wife Mary --
married 53 years this month.
You're going to have
to give me some tips.
(laughter)
We're not
that far along yet.
Today, we remember how
27-year-old
Staff Sergeant Morris --
one of our
nation's very first
Green Berets -- one of our very
first Green Berets --
think about that.
I mean, that's legendary
-- how Staff Sergeant
Morris recovered a fallen
comrade in Vietnam,
took out several enemy bunkers,
and kept going even after
he was shot three times.
And on most days, you can
find Santiago Erevia
at home in San Antonio --
he's a 68-year-old retired postal worker.
He's fixing up his house,
typically, tending to the
garden, going on walks
with his wife,
or doing some push-ups to
stay in shape.
(laughter)
Today, we
remember how 23-year-old
Specialist Four Erevia,
under a hail of bullets
in Vietnam, gave first aid to
his wounded comrades and
single-handedly destroyed
four enemy bunkers.
These are extraordinary
Americans.
They are exemplary
soldiers.
And so I want to begin by
welcoming Santiago Erevia
to the stage for the
reading of the citation.
Military Aide: Specialist
Four Santiago J. Erevia.
United States Army.
Specialist Four
Santiago J.
Erevia distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as a
radio telephone operator
in Company C, 1st
Battalion (Airmobile),
501st Infantry, 101st
Airborne Division
(Airmobile) during search
and clear mission near Tam
Ky, Republic of Vietnam
on May 21, 1969.
After breaching an
insurgent perimeter,
Specialist Four Erevia was
designated by his platoon
leader to render first aid
to several casualties, and
the rest of the
platoon moved forward.
As he was doing so, he
came under intense hostile
fire from four bunkers
to his left front.
Although he could have
taken cover with the rest
of the element, he chose
a retaliatory
course of action.
With heavy enemy fire
directed at him, he moved
in full view of the
hostile gunners
as he proceeded to crawl from
one wounded man
to another, gathering
ammunition.
Armed with two M-16 rifles
and several hand grenades,
he charged toward the
enemy positions behind the
suppressive fire
of the two rifles.
Under very intense fire,
he continued to advance
on the insurgents until he
was near the first bunker.
Disregarding the enemy
fire, he pulled the pin
from a hand grenade and
advanced on the bunker,
leveling suppressive fire
until he could drop the
grenade into the bunker,
mortally wounding the
insurgent and destroying
the fortification.
Without hesitation, he
employed identical tactics
as he proceeded to
eliminate
the next two enemy positions.
With the destruction
of the third bunker,
Specialist Four Erevia had
exhausted his supply
of hand grenades.
Still under intense fire
from the fourth position,
he courageously charged
forward behind
the fire emitted by his
M-16 rifles.
Arriving at the very edge
of the bunker,
he silenced the occupant within
the fortification
at point blank range.
Through his heroic actions
the lives of the wounded
were saved and the members
of the Company Command
Post were relieved from a
very precarious situation.
His exemplary performance
in the face
of overwhelming danger was an
inspiration
to his entire company and
contributed immeasurably
to the success of the mission.
Specialist Four Erevia's
conspicuous gallantry,
extraordinary heroism, and
intrepidity at the risk of
his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
were in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit, and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Sergeant First
Class Melvin Morris.
United States Army.
Staff Sergeant Melvin
Morris distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving
as Commander of a Strike
Force drawn from Company
D, 5th Special Forces
Group (Airborne),
1st Special Forces, during
combat operations against
an armed enemy in the
vicinity of Chi Lang,
Republic of Vietnam on
September 17, 1969.
On that afternoon,
Staff Sergeant Morris's
affiliated companies
encountered an extensive
enemy mine field and were
subsequently engaged
by a hostile force.
Staff Sergeant Morris
learned by radio that
a fellow team commander had
been killed near an enemy
bunker and he immediately
reorganized
his men into an effective
assault posture before advancing
forward and splitting off
with two men to recover the team commander's body.
Observing the maneuver,
the hostile force
concentrated its fire on
Staff Sergeant Morris's
three-man element and
successfully wounded both
men accompanying him.
After assisting the two
wounded men back
to his forces' lines, Staff
Sergeant Morris charged
forward into withering
enemy fire with
only his men's suppressive
fire as cover.
While enemy machine gun
emplacements continuously
directed strafing
fusillades against him,
Staff Sergeant Morris
destroyed the positions
with hand grenades and
continued his assault,
ultimately eliminating
four bunkers.
Upon reaching the bunker
nearest the fallen team
commander, Staff Sergeant
Morris repulsed the enemy,
retrieved his comrade and
began the arduous
trek back to friendly lines.
He was wounded three times
as he struggled forward,
but ultimately succeeded
in returning
his fallen comrade to a
friendly position.
Staff Sergeant Morris's
extraordinary heroism
and selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit, and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Master Sergeant First Class Jose Rodela.
United States Army.
Sergeant First Class Jose
Rodela distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving
as the company commander,
Detachment B-36,
Company A, 5th Special Forces
Group (Airborne),
1st Special Forces during
combat operations
against an armed enemy in Phuoc
Long Province,
Republic of Vietnam on
September 1, 1969.
That afternoon, Sergeant
First Class Rodela's
battalion came under an
intense barrage
of mortar, rocket, and
machine gun fire.
Ignoring the withering
enemy fire,
Sergeant First Class Rodela
immediately began placing
his men into defensive positions
to prevent the enemy
from overrunning the
entire battalion.
Repeatedly exposing
himself to enemy fire,
Sergeant First Class
Rodela moved from position
to position, providing
suppressing
fire and assisting wounded, and
was himself wounded
in the back and head by a B-40
rocket
while recovering a wounded comrade.
Alone, Sergeant First
Class Rodela assaulted
and knocked out the B-40
rocket position before
successfully returning to
the battalion's perimeter.
Sergeant First Class
Rodela's extraordinary
heroism and selflessness
above and beyond
the call of duty are in keeping
with the highest
traditions of military
service and reflect great
credit upon himself, his
unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
The President: Before Jose returns to his seat,
I just want to ask
Santiago and Melvin to
return
to the stage, please.
This is a
remarkable moment.
And as they come up, I'll
like to recall --
as they take their positions I'd
like to recall the words
of a poet: "Tho' much is
taken, much abides;
and tho' We are not now that
strength which in old days
Moved earth and heaven;
that which we are, we are;
One equal temper of heroic
hearts, Made weak by time
and fate, but strong in
will To strive,
to seek, to find, and
not to yield."
Santiago Erevia, Melvin
Morris, Jose Rodela --
in the thick of the fight,
all those years ago,
for your comrades and your
country,
you refused to yield.
And on behalf of a
grateful nation,
we all want to thank you for
inspiring us --
then and now -- with your
strength, your will,
and your heroic hearts.
Please give them a big
round of applause.
(applause)
Gentlemen,
thank you.
Please take your seats.
We'll proceed with the
rest of the ceremony.
Military Aide: Lenora
Alvarado accepting
on behalf of her father,
Specialist Four Leonard L. Alvarado.
Specialist Four Leonard L. Alvarado
distinguished
himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as a
Rifleman with Company D,
2d Battalion, 12th
Cavalry, 1st Cavalry
Division (Airmobile)
during combat operations
against an armed enemy
in Phuoc Long Province,
Republic of Vietnam
on August 12, 1969.
On that day, as Specialist
Four Alvarado and a small
reaction force moved
through dense jungle
en route to a beleaguered
friendly platoon,
Specialist Four Alvarado
detected
enemy movement and opened fire.
Despite his quick
reaction,
Specialist Four Alvarado and his
comrades were soon
pinned down by the hostile force
that blocked the path
to the trapped platoon.
Specialist Four Alvarado
quickly moved forward
through the hostile
machinegun fire
in order to engage the
enemy troops.
Suddenly, an enemy grenade
exploded nearby, wounding
and momentarily
stunning him.
Retaliating immediately,
he killed the grenadier
just as another enemy
barrage wounded him again.
Specialist Four Alvarado
crawled forward through
the fusillade to pull
several comrades back
within the hastily-formed
perimeter.
Realizing his element
needed
to break away from the hostile
force, Specialist Four Alvarado
began maneuvering
forward alone.
Though repeatedly thrown
to the ground by exploding
satchel charges, he
continued advancing
and firing, silencing several
emplacements,
including one enemy machinegun
position.
From his dangerous forward
position, he persistently
laid suppressive fire on
the hostile forces,
and after the enemy troops
had broken contact,
his comrades discovered that
he had succumbed to his wounds.
Specialist Four Alvarado's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness at the cost
of his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service
and reflect great credit upon
himself,
his unit and the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Richard Conde
accepting on behalf
of his father, Sergeant First
Class Felix M. Conde-Falcon.
Staff Sergeant Felix M. Conde-Falcon distinguished
himself by acts of gallantry
and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as
an acting
Platoon Leader in Company D, 1st
Battalion, 505th Infantry
Regiment, 3d Brigade, 82d
Airborne Division during
combat operations against
an armed enemy
in Ap Tan Hoa, Republic of
Vietnam on April 4, 1969.
While entering a heavily
wooded section on the
route of advance, Staff
Sergeant Conde-Falcon and
his company encountered
an extensive enemy bunker
complex, later identified
as a battalion command post.
Following tactical
artillery and air strikes
on the heavily-secured
enemy position, Staff
Sergeant Conde-Falcon's
platoon was selected
to assault and clear the
bunker fortifications.
Moving out ahead of his
platoon,
Staff Sergeant Conde-Falcon
charged the first bunker,
heaving grenades as he went.
As the hostile fire
increased,
he crawled to the blind side of
an entrenchment position,
jumped to the roof, and
tossed a grenade
into the bunker aperture.
Without hesitating,
he proceeded
to two additional bunkers, both
of which he destroyed
in the same manner
as the first.
Rejoining his platoon,
Staff Sergeant
Conde-Falcon advanced
about one hundred meters
through the trees before
coming
under intense hostile fire.
Selecting three men
to accompany him,
he maneuvered toward the
enemy's flank position.
Carrying a machinegun, he
single-handedly assaulted
the nearest fortification,
killing the enemy inside
before running
out of ammunition.
After returning to the
three men with his empty
weapon and taking
up an M-16 rifle,
he concentrated on
the next bunker.
Within ten meters of his
goal, Staff Sergeant
Conde-Falcon was shot by
an unseen assailant and
soon died of his wounds.
Staff Sergeant
Conde-Falcon's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness at the cost
of his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Shyrell Jean
Copas accepting
on behalf of her father,
Specialist Four Ardie R. Copas.
Specialist Four Ardie R. Copas
distinguished
himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as a
Machinegunner
in Company C, 1st Battalion
(Mechanized),
5th Infantry Regiment, 25th
Infantry Division during combat
operations against an
armed enemy near Ph Romeas
Hek, Cambodia
on May 12, 1970.
That morning, Specialist
Four Copas's company
was suddenly attacked by a
large hostile force firing
recoilless rifles,
rocket-propelled grenades,
and automatic weapons.
As Specialist Four Copas
began returning fire, his
armored car was struck by
an enemy recoilless round,
knocking him to the ground
and injuring four American
Soldiers beside
the vehicle.
Ignoring his own wounds,
Specialist Four Copas
quickly remounted the
burning vehicle and
commenced firing his
machinegun at the
belligerents.
Braving the hostile fire
directed at him and the
possible detonation of the
mortar rounds inside the
track, Specialist Four
Copas maintained
a heavy volume of suppressive
fire on the foe while the
wounded Americans were
safely evacuated.
Undaunted, Specialist Four
Copas continued to place
devastating volleys of
fire upon the adversary
until he was mortally
wounded when another enemy
round hit his vehicle.
Specialist Four Copas's
daring action resulted in
the safe evacuation
of his comrades.
Specialist Four Copas's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness at the cost
of his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause) MILITARY AIDE:
Tina Duran-Ruvalcaba
accepting on behalf of her
father, Specialist
Four Jesus S.
Duran.
Specialist Four Jesus S.
Duran distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving
as an acting M-60
machinegunner in Company
E, 2d Battalion, 5th
Cavalry, 1st Cavalry
Division (Airmobile)
during combat operations
against an armed enemy in
the Republic of Vietnam
on April 10, 1969.
That afternoon, the
reconnaissance platoon was
moving into an elaborate
enemy bunker complex when
the lead elements began
taking concentrated ambush
fire from every side.
The command post was in
imminent danger
of being overrun.
With an M-60 machinegun
blazing from his hip,
Specialist Four Duran
rushed forward and assumed
a defensive position
near the command post.
As hostile forces stormed
forward, Specialist Four
Duran stood tall in a
cloud of dust raised by
the impacting rounds and
bursting grenades directed
towards him and thwarted
the enemy with devastating
streams of
machinegun fire.
Learning that two
seriously wounded troopers
lay helplessly pinned down
under harassing fire,
Specialist Four Duran
assaulted the suppressive
enemy positions, firing
deadly bursts on the run.
Mounting a log, he fired
directly into the enemy's
foxholes, eliminating four
and cutting down several
others as they fled.
Specialist Four Duran
then continued
to pour effective fire on the
disorganized
and fleeing enemy.
Specialist Four Duran's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions
of military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause) MILITARY AIDE:
Command Sergeant Major
Michael Grinston accepting
on behalf of Sergeant
Candelario Garcia.
Sergeant Candelario Garcia
distinguished himself by
acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while serving as an acting
Team Leader for Company
B, 1st Battalion, 2d
Infantry, 1st Brigade,1st
Infantry Division during
combat operations against
an armed enemy in Lai Khe,
Republic of Vietnam
on December 8, 1968.
On that day, while
conducting reconnaissance,
Sergeant Garcia and
his platoon discovered
communication wire and
other signs of an enemy
base camp leading into a
densely vegetated area.
As the men advanced, they
came under intense fire.
Several men were hit and
trapped in the open.
Ignoring a hail of hostile
bullets, Sergeant Garcia
crawled to within ten
meters of a machinegun
bunker, leaped to his feet
and ran directly at the
fortification, firing
his rifle as he charged.
Sergeant Garcia jammed two
hand grenades into the gun
port and then placed the
muzzle of his weapon
inside, killing
all four occupants.
Continuing to expose
himself to intense enemy
fire, Sergeant Garcia
raced fifteen meters to
another bunker and killed
its three defenders with
hand grenades
and rifle fire.
After again braving the
enemies' barrage in order
to rescue two casualties,
he joined his company
in an assault which overran
the remaining enemy positions.
Sergeant Garcia's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions
of military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Charles Baldonado
accepting on behalf of his
brother, Corporal Joe R. Baldonado
Corporal Joe R. Baldonado
distinguished
himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as
an acting machinegunner
in 3d Squad, 2d Platoon,
Company B, 187th Airborne
Infantry Regiment during
combat operations against
an armed enemy in
Kangdong, Korea
on November 25, 1950.
On that morning, the enemy
launched a strong attack
in an effort to seize the
hill occupied
by Corporal Baldonado and his company.
The platoon had expended
most of its ammunition
in repelling the enemy attack
and the platoon leader
decided to commit his 3d
Squad, with its supply
of ammunition, in the
defensive action.
Since there was no time
to dig in because of the
proximity of the enemy,
who had advanced to within
twenty-five yards of the
platoon position, Corporal
Baldonado emplaced his
weapon in an exposed
position and delivered a
withering stream of fire
on the advancing enemy,
causing them to fall back
in disorder.
The enemy then
concentrated all their
fire on Corporal
Baldonado's gun and
attempted to knock it out
by rushing the position
in small groups and
hurling hand grenades.
Several times, grenades
exploded extremely close
to Corporal Baldonado but
failed to interrupt
his continuous firing.
The hostile troops made
repeated attempts to storm
his position and were
driven back each time with
appalling casualties.
The enemy finally withdrew
after making a final
assault on Corporal
Baldonado's position
during which a grenade
landed near his gun,
killing him instantly.
Corporal Baldonado's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness at the cost
of his own life,
above and beyond the call of
duty, are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Tyronne
Espinoza accepting
on behalf of his father, Corporal Victor H. Espinoza
distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as
an Acting Rifleman in
Company A, 23d Infantry
Regiment, 2d Infantry
Division during combat
operations against an
armed enemy in Chorwon,
Korea on August 1, 1952.
On that day, Corporal
Espinoza and his unit were
responsible for securing
and holding
a vital enemy hill.
As the friendly unit
neared its objective,
it was subjected to a
devastating volume
of enemy fire, slowing
its progress.
Corporal Espinoza,
unhesitatingly and being
fully aware of the hazards
involved, left his place
of comparative safety and
made a deliberate one man
assault on the enemy with
his rifle and grenades,
destroying a machinegun
and killing its crew.
Corporal Espinoza
continued across the
fire-swept terrain to an
exposed vantage point
where he attacked an enemy
mortar position and two
bunkers with grenades and
rifle fire, knocking out
the enemy mortar position
and destroying both
bunkers and killing
their occupants.
Upon reaching the crest,
and after running out of
rifle ammunition, he
called for more grenades.
A comrade who was behind
him threw some Chinese
grenades to him.
Immediately upon catching
them, he pulled the pins
and hurled them into the
occupied trenches, killing
and wounding more of the
enemy
with their own weapons.
Continuing on through a
tunnel, Corporal Espinoza
made a daring charge,
inflicting at least seven
more casualties upon
the enemy who were fast
retreating into
the tunnel.
Corporal Espinoza was
quickly in pursuit, but
the hostile fire from the
opening prevented him from
overtaking the
retreating enemy.
As a result, Corporal
Espinoza destroyed the
tunnel with TNT, called
for more grenades from his
company, and hurled them
at the enemy troops until
they were out of reach.
Corporal Espinoza's
incredible display of
valor secured the vital
strong point and took a
heavy toll on the enemy,
resulting in at least
fourteen dead and
eleven wounded.
Corporal Espinoza's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions
of military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Pete Corrall
accepting on behalf
of his uncle, Sergeant Eduardo C. Gomez.
Sergeant Eduardo C. Gomez
distinguished
himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving with
Company I, 8th Cavalry
Regiment, 1st Cavalry
Division during combat
operations against an
armed enemy in Tabu-dong,
Korea on
September 3, 1950.
That afternoon, while
conducting combat patrol,
Sergeant Gomez' company
was ruthlessly attacked
by a hostile force which
moved within seventy-five
yards of the command post
before
it was immobilized by rocket fire.
However, an enemy tank and
multiple enemy machineguns
continued to rake the
company
perimeter with devastating fire.
Realizing the tank posed
a serious threat
to the entire perimeter,
Sergeant Gomez voluntarily
crawled thirty yards across an
open rice field vulnerable
to enemy observation and
fire, boarded the tank,
pried open one of the
hatches
on the turret and dropped an
activated grenade into the hull,
killing the crew.
Wounded in the left side
while returning
to his position, Sergeant Gomez
refused evacuation.
Observing that
the tripod of a .30
caliber machinegun was
rendered inoperable
by enemy fire, he cradled
the weapon in his arms,
returned to the forward
defensive positions,
and swept the assaulting force
with withering fire.
Although his weapon
overheated and burned his
hands and his painful
wound still bled,
Sergeant Gomez maintained his
stand and, upon orders to
withdraw in the face
of overwhelming enemy
superiority, remained to
provide protective fire.
Sergeant Gomez continued
to pour accurate fire into
the enemy ranks, exacting
a heavy toll in casualties
and retarding
their advance.
Sergeant Gomez would not
consent to leave his post
for medical attention
until the company
established new
defensive positions.
Sergeant Gomez's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions
of military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented)
(applause)
Miliary Aide: Laurie Wegner
accepting on behalf
of her uncle, Private First
Class Leonard M. Kravitz.
Private First
Class Leonard M. Kravitz
distinguished
himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as
an assistant machinegunner
with Company M, 5th
Infantry Regiment,
24th Infantry Division during
combat operations against
an armed enemy in
Yangpyong,
Korea on March 6 and 7, 1951.
After friendly elements
had repulsed two probing
attacks, the enemy
launched a fanatical
banzai charge with heavy
supporting fire and,
despite staggering losses,
pressed the assault
with ruthless determination.
When the machinegunner was
wounded in the initial
phase of the action,
Private First Class
Kravitz immediately seized
the weapon and poured
devastating fire into the
ranks
of the onrushing assailants.
The enemy effected and
exploited a breach
on the left flank, rendering
the friendly positions untenable.
Upon order to withdraw,
Private First Class
Kravitz voluntarily
remained to provide
protective fire for
the retiring elements.
Detecting enemy troops
moving toward friendly
positions, Private First
Class Kravitz swept the
hostile soldiers with
deadly, accurate fire,
killing the entire group.
His destructive
retaliation caused the
enemy to concentrate
vicious fire
on his position and enabled the
friendly
elements to withdraw.
Later, after friendly
troops had returned,
Private First Class
Kravitz was found dead
behind the gun he had
so heroically manned,
surrounded by
numerous enemy dead.
Private First Class
Kravitz's extraordinary
heroism and selflessness
at the cost of his own
life, above and beyond
the call of duty, are in
keeping with the highest
traditions of military
service and reflect great
credit upon himself, his
unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Iris Negron
accepting on behalf
of her father,
Sergeant Juan E. Negron.
Sergeant Juan E. Negron
distinguished
himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as a
member of Company L,
65th Infantry Regiment, 3d
Infantry Division during
combat operations against
an armed enemy
in Kalma-Eri, Korea
on April 28, 1951.
That afternoon, Sergeant
Negron took up the most
vulnerable position on his
company's exposed right
flank after an enemy force
had overrun
a section of the line.
When notified that
elements of his company
were withdrawing, Sergeant
Negron refused to leave
his exposed position,
instead delivering
withering fire at hostile
troops who had broken
through a road block.
When the hostile troops
approached his position,
Sergeant Negron accurately
hurled hand grenades at
short range, halting
their attack.
Sergeant Negron held the
position throughout the
night while friendly
forces organized and
launched a counterattack.
The next morning, after
the enemy had been
repulsed, friendly forces
relieved Sergeant Negron
and found the bodies of
fifteen enemy soldiers
surrounding his position.
Sergeant Negron's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Michael David Pena
accepting on behalf
of his father, Master
Sergeant Mike C. Pena.
Master Sergeant Mike C. Pena
distinguished himself
by acts of gallantry
and intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while serving as a member
of Company F,
5th Cavalry Regiment, 1st
Cavalry Division during
combat operations against an
armed enemy in Waegwan,
Korea, on
September 4, 1950.
That evening, under cover
of darkness and a dreary
mist, an enemy battalion
moved to within
a few yards of Master Sergeant
Pena's platoon.
Recognizing the enemy's
approach, Master Sergeant
Pena and his men opened
fire, but the enemy's
sudden emergence and
accurate, point blank fire
forced the friendly
troops to withdraw.
Master Sergeant Pena
rapidly reorganized his
men and led them in a
counterattack which
succeeded in regaining the
positions
they had just lost.
He and his men quickly
established a defensive
perimeter and laid down
devastating fire,
but enemy troops continued to
hurl themselves
at the defenses in
overwhelming numbers.
Realizing that their
scarce supply
of ammunition would soon make
their positions untenable,
Master Sergeant Pena
ordered his men to fall
back and manned a
machinegun
to cover their withdrawal.
He singlehandedly held
back the enemy until
the early hours of the
following morning when his
position was overrun
and he was killed.
Master Sergeant Pena's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness at the cost
of his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Sergeant Ashley Randall
accepting on behalf of her
grandfather, Private
Demensio Rivera.
Private Demensio Rivera
distinguished himself by
acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while serving as an
automatic rifleman with 2d
Platoon, Company G,
7th Infantry Regiment, 3d
Infantry Division during
combat operations against
an armed enemy
in Changyong-ni, Korea
on May 23, 1951.
Early that morning, a
large hostile force
emerged from a dense fog
and viciously attacked
Private Rivera
and his comrades.
Private Rivera immediately
responded by firing with
deadly accuracy until
his weapon jammed.
Without hesitating, he
threw his rifle down and
began to engage the enemy
with
his pistol and grenades.
At one point, Private
Rivera fearlessly crawled
from his emplacement to
engage an infiltrating
enemy soldier in fierce
hand-to-hand combat.
With only the sound of
footsteps and obscure
shadows to guide his aim,
Private Rivera held his
position against
tremendous odds,
inflicting numerous
casualties on the enemy
until he found himself
without ammunition of any
kind except one grenade.
Displaying a peerless
fighting spirit and an
utterly selfless devotion
to duty,
Private Rivera pulled the pin
from his last grenade and calmly
waited for the enemy
to reach his position.
As enemy troops leaped
inside his bunker,
Private Rivera activated the
grenade with the full
knowledge that it meant
his almost certain death.
When the debris from the
explosion had cleared,
friendly forces recovered
a severely wounded
Private Rivera and discovered
the bodies
of four dead or dying enemy
soldiers surrounding him.
Private Rivera's
extraordinary heroism
and selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions
of military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Joe Rodriguez
accepting on behalf of his
uncle, Private Miguel A. Vera.
Private Miguel A.
Vera distinguished himself
by acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while serving as an
automatic rifleman with
Company F, 38th Infantry
Regiment, 2d Infantry
Division in Chorwon,
Korea,
on September 21, 1952.
That morning, despite
suffering from wounds
inflicted in a previous
battle,
Private Vera voluntarily left
the aid station
to join his comrades in an
attack against well-fortified
enemy positions on a hill
of great importance.
When the assaulting
elements had moved within
twenty yards of the enemy
positions,
they were suddenly trapped by a
heavy volume of mortar,
artillery and
small-arms fire.
The company prepared to
make a limited withdrawal,
but Private Vera
volunteered
to remain behind to provide
covering fire.
As his companions moved
to safety, Private Vera
remained steadfast in
his position, directing
accurate fire against the
hostile positions despite
the intense volume of
fire which the enemy was
concentrating upon him.
Later in the morning,
when the friendly force
returned, they discovered
Private Vera in the same
position, facing
the enemy.
Private Vera's noble
intrepidity
and self-sacrifice saved many
of his comrades' lives.
Private Vera's
extraordinary heroism
and selflessness at the cost
of his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
the military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Nancy Weinstein
accepting on behalf
of her husband, Sergeant Jack Weinstein.
Sergeant Jack Weinstein
distinguished himself by
acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while leading 1st Platoon,
Company G, 21st Infantry
Regiment, 24th Infantry
Division in Kumsong, Korea
on October 19, 1951.
That afternoon,
thirty enemy troops
counterattacked Sergeant
Weinstein's platoon.
Most of the platoon's
members had been wounded
in the previous action and
withdrew
under the heavy fire.
Sergeant Weinstein,
however, remained in his
position and continued to
fight off the onrushing
enemy, killing at least
six with
his M-1 rifle before running
out of ammunition.
Although under extremely
heavy enemy fire,
Sergeant Weinstein refused to
withdraw and continued
fighting by throwing enemy
hand grenades
found lying near his position.
He again halted the
enemy's progress and
inflicted numerous
casualties.
Alone and unaided, he
held the ground
which his platoon had fought
tenaciously to take
and held out against
overwhelming odds until
another platoon was able
to relieve him and drive
back the enemy.
Sergeant Weinstein's leg
had been broken
by an enemy grenade and old
wounds suffered
in previous battles had
reopened, but he refused
to withdraw and
successfully bought time
for his wounded comrades
to reach friendly lines.
Sergeant Weinstein's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of the
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Dominga Perez
accepting
on behalf of her father,
Private Pedro Cano.
acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while serving with Company
C, 8th Infantry Regiment,
4th Infantry Division
during combat operations
against an armed enemy
in Schevenhutte, Germany on
December 2 and 3, 1944.
On the afternoon of the
2nd, American infantrymen
launched an attack against
German emplacements
but were repulsed by enemy
machinegun fire.
Armed with a rocket
launcher, Private Cano
crawled through a densely
mined area under heavy
enemy fire and
successfully reached a
point within ten yards of
the nearest emplacement.
He quickly fired a rocket
into the position, killing
the two gunners and five
supporting riflemen.
Without hesitating, he
fired into a second
position, killing two more
gunners, and proceeded
to assault the position with
hand grenades, killing
several others and
dispersing the rest.
Then, when an adjacent
company encountered heavy
fire, Private Cano crossed
his company front, crept
to within fifteen yards
of the nearest enemy
emplacement and killed the
two machinegunners
with a rocket.
With another round he
killed two more gunners
and destroyed
a second gun.
On the following day, his
company renewed the attack
and again encountered
heavy machinegun fire.
Private Cano, armed with
his rocket launcher,
again moved across fire-swept
terrain and destroyed
three enemy machineguns in
succession,
killing the six gunners.
Private Cano's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Miriam Adams
accepting on behalf
of her uncle, Private Joe Gandara.
Private Joe Gandara
distinguished himself
by acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while serving with Company
D, 2d Battalion, 507th
Parachute Infantry
Regiment, 17th Airborne
Division during combat
operations against an
armed enemy
in Amfreville, France on June 9, 1944.
On that day, Private
Gandara's detachment came
under devastating enemy
fire from a strong German
force, pinning the men to
the ground
for a period of four hours.
Private Gandara
voluntarily advanced alone
toward the enemy position.
Firing his machinegun
from his hip as he moved
forward, he destroyed
three hostile machineguns
before he was
fatally wounded.
Private Gandara's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness at the cost
of his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Alfonzo Lara accepting
on behalf of his brother,
Private First
Class Salvador J.
Lara.
Private First
Class Salvador J.
Lara distinguished himself
by acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty
while serving as the Squad
Leader of a rifle squad
with 2d Platoon, Company
L, 180th Infantry, 45th
Infantry Division during
combat operations against
an armed enemy in Aprilia,
Italy on May 27 and 28,
1944.
On the afternoon of the
27th, Private First Class
Lara aggressively led
his rifle squad in
neutralizing multiple
enemy strongpoints and in
inflicting large numbers
of casualties on the
enemy.
Having taken his initial
objective, Private First
Class Lara noticed that
the unit to his right was
meeting stiff resistance
from a large,
well-entrenched enemy
force in a deep ditch.
Private First Class Lara
quickly gathered three men
and attacked a wide
section of the enemy
position, killing four,
forcing fifteen others
to surrender and causing two
enemy mortar crews to
abandon their weapons.
His fearless and efficient
performance enabled both
his own unit and the unit
to his right to continue
to their objective.
The next morning, as
his company resumed
the attack, Private First
Class Lara sustained
a severe leg wound, but did
not stop
to receive first aid.
His company suffered heavy
casualties as a result
of withering machinegun fire
coming from
an enemy strongpoint on
the right flank.
After requesting
permission to destroy
the enemy machineguns armed
only with a Browning
Automatic Rifle, Private
First Class Lara
crawled alone toward the
nearest machinegun.
Despite his painful wound
and the extreme danger
of the task, he rose and
fearlessly
charged the nest, killing
the crew members.
Another machinegun opened
fire on him,
but he quickly neutralized this
weapon with accurate fire
from his Browning, killing
three more of the enemy.
His aggressive attack
forced two other
machinegun crews to
flee their weapons.
After rejoining his
company, Private First
Class Lara continued his
exemplary performance
until he captured
his objective.
Private First Class Lara's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Patricia
Kennedy accepting on behalf
of her father, Private First
Class William F. Leonard.
Private First
Class William F. Leonard
distinguished
himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as a
Squad Leader in Company C,
30th Infantry Regiment, 3d
Infantry Division during
combat operations against
an armed enemy near
St. Die, France on
November 7, 1944.
Private First Class
Leonard's platoon was
reduced to eight men as
a result of blistering
artillery, mortar,
machinegun,
and rifle fire.
Private First Class
Leonard led the survivors
in an assault over a hill
covered by trees and
shrubs which the enemy
continuously swept with
automatic weapons fire.
Ignoring bullets which
pierced his pack,
Private First Class Leonard
killed two snipers at ranges
of fifty and seventy-five
yards and engaged and
destroyed a machinegun
nest with grenades,
killing its two-man crew.
Though momentarily stunned
by an exploding bazooka
shell, Private First Class
Leonard relentlessly
advanced, ultimately
knocking out a second
machinegun nest and capturing
the roadblock objective.
Private First Class
Leonard's extraordinary
heroism and selflessness
above and beyond
the call of duty are in keeping
with the highest
traditions of military
service and reflect great
credit upon himself, his
unit and the United States
Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Alice
Mendoza accepting on behalf
of her husband, Staff Sergeant Manuel V. Mendoza.
Staff Sergeant Manuel V. Mendoza
distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as
a Platoon Sergeant with
Company B, 350th Infantry,
88th Infantry Division
during combat operations
against
an armed enemy on Mt.
Battaglia, Italy on
October 4, 1944.
That afternoon, the
enemy launched a violent
counterattack preceded by
a heavy mortar barrage.
Staff Sergeant Mendoza,
already wounded in the arm
and leg, grabbed a
Thompson sub-machinegun
and ran to the crest of
the hill where
he saw approximately 200 enemy
troops charging
up the slopes employing
flame-throwers, machine
pistols, rifles,
and hand grenades.
Staff Sergeant Mendoza
immediately began
to engage the enemy, firing
five clips
and killing ten enemy soldiers.
After exhausting his
ammunition,
he picked up a carbine and
emptied
its magazine at the enemy.
By this time, an
enemy soldier with
a flame-thrower had almost
reached the crest,
but was quickly eliminated as
Staff Sergeant Mendoza
drew his pistol and fired.
Seeing that the enemy
force continued
to advance, Staff Sergeant
Mendoza
jumped into a machinegun
emplacement that had just been
abandoned and opened fire.
Unable to engage the
entire enemy force from
his location, he picked up
the machinegun
and moved forward, firing from
his hip and spraying a
withering hail of bullets
into the oncoming enemy,
causing them to
break into confusion.
He then set the machinegun
on the ground and
continued to fire
until the gun jammed.
Without hesitating, Staff
Sergeant Mendoza began
throwing hand grenades at
the enemy,
causing them to flee.
After the enemy had
withdrawn, he advanced
down the forward slope
of the hill, retrieved
numerous enemy weapons
scattered about the area,
captured a wounded enemy
soldier, and returned
to consolidate friendly
positions
with all available men.
Staff Sergeant Mendoza's
gallant stand resulted
in thirty German soldiers
killed and the successful
defense of the hill.
Staff Sergeant Mendoza's
extraordinary heroism
and selflessness above and
beyond the call
of duty are in keeping with the
highest traditions
of military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Robert Nietzel accepting
on behalf of his first cousin,
Sergeant Alfred B. Nietzel.
Sergeant Alfred B. Nietzel
distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as a
section leader for Company
H, 16th Infantry Regiment,
1st Infantry Division
during combat operations
against an armed enemy
in Heistern, Germany on
November 18, 1944.
That afternoon, Sergeant
Nietzel fought tenaciously
to repel a vicious enemy
attack against his unit.
Sergeant Nietzel employed
accurate, intense fire
from his machinegun and
successfully
slowed the hostile advance.
However, the overwhelming
enemy force
continued to press forward.
Realizing he desperately
needed reinforcements,
Sergeant Nietzel ordered
the three remaining
members of his squad to
return to the company
command post
and secure aid.
He immediately turned his
attention
to covering their movement
with his fire.
After expending all his
machinegun ammunition,
Sergeant Nietzel began
firing his rifle into the
attacking ranks until
he was killed by the
explosion of an
enemy grenade.
Sergeant Nietzel's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness at the cost
of his own life, above and
beyond the call of duty,
are in keeping with the
highest traditions of
military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and the
United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
Military Aide: Dr. Terry
Schwab accepting on behalf
of his father, First Lieutenant Donald K. Schwab.
First Lieutenant Donald K. Schwab
distinguished
himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity
above and beyond the call
of duty while serving as
the Commander of Company
E, 15th Infantry Regiment,
3d Infantry Division,
during combat operations
against an armed enemy
near Lure, France on
September 17, 1944.
That afternoon, as First
Lieutenant Schwab led his
company across four
hundred yards of exposed
ground, an intense,
grazing burst of
machinegun and
machine-pistol fire sprung
forth without warning from
a fringe of woods directly
in front of the
American force.
First Lieutenant Schwab
quickly extricated his men
from the attempted ambush
and led them back
to a defiladed position.
Soon after, he was ordered
to overwhelm the enemy line.
He rapidly organized his
men into
a skirmish line and, with
indomitable courage,
again led them forward into the
lethal enemy fire.
When halted a second time,
First Lieutenant Schwab
moved from man to man to
supervise collection
of the wounded and organize
his company's withdrawal.
From defilade, he rallied
his decimated force for a
third charge on the
hostile strong point and
successfully worked his
way to within fifty yards
of the Germans before
ordering
his men to hit the dirt.
While automatic weapons
fire blazed around him,
he rushed forward alone,
firing his carbine
at the German foxholes, aiming
for the vital enemy
machine-pistol nest which
had sparked the German
resistance and caused
heavy casualties among his men.
Silhouetted through the
mist and rain by enemy
flares, he charged to the
German emplacement,
ripped the half-cover off the
hostile firing pit,
struck the German gunner on the
head with his carbine butt
and dragged the German
back through a hail of
fire to friendly lines.
First Lieutenant Schwab's
action so disorganized
hostile infantry
resistance that the enemy
forces withdrew,
abandoning their
formidable defensive line.
First Lieutenant Schwab's
extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty
are in keeping with the
highest traditions
of military service and
reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit and
the United States Army.
(The medal is presented.)
(applause)
The President: Ladies and gentlemen,
it is very rare where
we have
the opportunity to reflect
on the extraordinary
courage and patriotism
of such a remarkable
collection of men.
We are so
grateful to them.
We are so grateful
to their families.
It makes us proud and
it makes us inspired.
And so, before we conclude
the program,
I would ask all those who have
witnessed this
extraordinary day to
please rise and give these
latest recipients of
the Medal of Honor your
warmest applause.
(applause)
Chaplain, would you give
us the benediction?
(A prayer is offered)
Thank you so much,
everybody.
This concludes
our program.
But please have an
opportunity
to enjoy the White House.
We are so grateful that
all of you had
a chance to come.
God bless you.
God bless America.
(applause)